Welcome to the data structures
and algorithms for Java course.
Congratulations on making a great decision
to take this course.
As a software developer, it's important that you understand
the options available to you in terms of the data structures
you can use in your applications,
and the algorithms you can use to sort and search data.
So we're gonna start the course
by going over a few definitions.
We're going to discuss what is a data structure,
and what is an algorithm,
and then we're going to also cover Big O notation.
Big O notation is a way of comparing
how different algorithms perform in an objective manner
that doesn't rely on hardware.
We're gonna cover a bunch of data structures
in this course, and some of those are abstract data types,
and you'll learn what those are in the course.
So we're gonna cover arrays, lists, stacks, queues,
hashtables, trees, and we're gonna focus
mainly on binary search trees in the tree section,
heaps and a very brief look at sets.
For algorithms we're going to cover search algorithms
there are only two that we're gonna cover,
linear search and binary search.
We're gonna look at a whole bunch of sort algorithms
I won't list them all, but just to sample a few
bubble sort, merge sort, quick sort,
Radix sort, insertion sort, quite a number of others,
and we're also gonna look at recursion.
That might be review for you, but many of the algorithms
use recursion and so we're going to review
what recursion is and how it works.
So the way that most sections will go,
is we'll start with some theory
for example if we're discussing an algorithm
we'll go over the steps for the algorithm.
If we're talking about a data structure,
we'll discuss what the data structure is,
and what's it's advantages and disadvantages are,
and then we'll code when it comes to a data structure
a simple implementation if it's an algorithm
we'll code a representative implementation,
and after that we'll look at what's available in the JDK
because this is a for Java course
and in practise you're not going to code the algorithms
and the data structures, because the Java team
has already done that for us most of the time.
There are cases where there isn't much available
in the JDK, but for the data structures we'll be looking at
there's good support in the JDK for most of them,
and when it comes to the sort algorithms the JDK
does have methods for sorting collections.
Now it's important that you watch the videos in order
because later videos assume you know what we've covered
in earlier videos.
So later sections build on earlier sections.
For example, when we get down to a stack
we'll say well you can implement a stack using a link list.
Well if you don't understand link list
because you haven't watched the list section
you might have trouble following the discussion about stacks
and so to get the most out of this course,
it's best that you watch the videos in order.
Even if you think that some of the videos might be review
you never know you might pick up something
that you didn't know.
I've been a software developer for over 25 years
and every time I take a tech course
I always watch the videos from beginning to end
because usually there's one or two little nuggets
that I pick up that I didn't already know.
So to get the best out of the course I recommend
that you watch the videos in order.
Okay, so I didn't wanna spend a long time
introducing the course,
cause I know you wanna get into the material,
and so do I so let's get going.
I'll see you in the next video.